# VOICE-CONTROLLED-SMART-WHEELCHAIR
A voice controlled wheelchair prototype was developed using a commercially available manual wheelchair to assist people with both upper and lower limb disabilities. An Arduino micro-controller processes the voice command from the speech recognition module and controls the motor movement of the wheelchair. Bluetooth module was also used to do away with messy wiring and an optional joystick command was also incorporated into the prototype design. The wheelchair is the most ubiquitous equipment used by people with lower limb disability. It enables them some degree of freedom in mobility and independence as opposed to those with both upper and lower limb disabilities. Most of the wheelchairs available in the market are manual in nature with some available with motorized option. Anything beyond that is custom made which is costly and not within the reach of most people. People with severe lower and upper disabilities have to resort to costly electronic controlled wheelchairs or be totally dependent on another person to move them around in their manual wheelchairs. Motorized wheelchairs controlled through joystick, softball, finger, tablet, chin and head are readily available at a high cost but most of them do not cater for those with upper limb disability. The advances in speech recognition technology have made it possible to control any electronics based device using voice command. This technology is capitalized for voice controlled wheelchair to assist those with both upper and lower limb disabilities.The World Health Organization (WHO) has estimated that of the 75 million people who need assistive technology such as wheelchair, only 5% to 15% of those have access to one.

# WORKING OF THE PROJECT
As mentioned above, voice commands are processed by phone, and speech-to-text conversion is done within the app using Google's speech-recognition technology. The text is then sent to the receiver side via Bluetooth. Text received via Bluetooth is forwarded to the Arduino Uno board using UART serial communication protocol. Arduino code checks the text received. Whenever the text is a matching string, Arduino controls the movements of the wheelchair accordingly in forwarding, backward, turning right, turning left, and stop. Signal logic levels at the different stages of the circuits for proper controlling of the wheelchair car are given below.
